
## Analysis of our Distribution of Age vs. Net Worth by Gender Scatter plot

To answer our first guiding question on the trends in age, gender, and net worth among billionaires, the scatter plot shows that billionaires aged 55 to 75, on average, seem to have higher net worths. There is, however, an outlier at age 50 with the highest net worth at upwards of 200 billion dollars. Excluding the outlier, the male with the highest net worth is around 57 years old while the billionaire that is a woman with the highest net worth is around age 67. It seems that billionaires that are women, as a whole, have lower net worths than billionaires that are men. The wealthier billionaires who identify as women are generally older than the wealthier billionaires who identify as men suggesting that billionaires who are women acquire wealth when they’re older. Overall, it appears that older men hold the majority of the world's wealth and have the highest net worth. When thinking of the larger implications, older generations hold massive influence as the world’s wealthiest even when their values or interests conflict with younger generations. Initially, our group had assumed there weren’t many young billionaires and this visualization overwhelmingly proves this theory that many of the world’s billionaires are older and are men.

## Analysis of our Philanthropy Score Versus Billionaires Who are Self Made

For our second question, we wanted to figure out if an individual’s background (their level of privilege throughout their upbringing), or their individual experiences with their grapple with money has an effect on their generosity and altruism. Our graph shows that a majority of billionaires are less charitable, in the sense that a majority of them have the lowest philanthropy score of 1. The higher the philanthropy score, the less number of billionaires there are with that score. With regards to the proportion between self-made and non-self-made billionaires,  billionaires who are self-made are the most charitable and give back to the community more than their non-self-made counterparts. We can conclude this because throughout all the philanthropy scores in the 5-point scale, self-made billionaires make up more than half of the bar of overall billionaires with that particular score. Overall, it is worth noting that self-made billionaires also outnumber non-self-made billionaires in our dataset. But thinking of the larger trends in philanthropy among billionaires, the overwhelming majority are less charitable and it’s less common for billionaires to willingly share large amounts of their wealth. This may be valuable to consider for governments determining public policies to enact on the wealthiest to ensure billionaires are sharing their wealth.

## Analysis of Billionaires in the United States and Billionaires in the World

For our third question, we wanted to see the geographic distribution of billionaires in the U.S. and in the world. When thinking about wealth distribution in a national and international context, our visualization gives insight into which regions have the most number of billionaires and which regions have the least number of billionaires. This map is helpful in highlighting the countries with the highest number of billionaires, such as the United States that has 748 billionaires and China that has 571 billionaires. In comparison, South America, Africa, and Southwestern Asia had lower concentrations of billionaires. Zooming in on the United States specifically, this density map highlights the areas with the highest concentration of billionaires, such as California with 186 billionaires and New York with 135 billionaires. It also shows the areas with the lowest concentration of billionaires, such as rural states in the Midwest and South. A considerable number of states in the middle of the United States also had 0 billionaires as well as states in Northeastern United States. Throughout our visualization, there are regions that stand out as high outliers and represent the current uneven and unequal wealth distribution geographically. This information can be useful for a variety of purposes, such as market research, national and international policy analysis, and social science research.

# Final Insights

This project analyzed the Forbes 2022 Billionaires List and highlighted major trends among the world’s billionaires based on age, gender, privilege, philanthropy, and geographic location among billionaires. Our first chart showed that older men hold the majority of the world’s wealth. Our second chart showed that the majority of billionaires tend to be less charitable, but self-made billionaires tend to be more charitable than non-self-made billionaires. And lastly, many of the world’s billionaires are from the United States and China and looking specifically at the United States, California, New York, and Florida have the highest number of billionaires. These reveal characteristics that are favored in order to achieve a high economic status. That said, wealth and economic stability is a privilege. Billionaires especially are a unique class of individuals who have experienced this privilege, leading the general public to hold them in high prestige, mystique, but also critique due to their role in perpetuating wealth inequality. There is a need for better policies that curb the over-accumulation of wealth by a small and concentrated part of society. We hope this data sheds light on who is being left out of these opportunities to accumulate wealth, so that we may take steps to remedy certain structural and cultural inequities in society.  
