# Do You Have What It Takes to Become a Billionare in 2022?
## INFO 201 "Foundational Skills for Data Science" — Winter 2023

Authors: Ayesha Patel, Fal Iyoab, Gillian Soekawan, Jackie Hong, and Megan Cuan

**Link: https://jmhong04.shinyapps.io/final-project-jmhong04/**

# Introduction
Wealth is a vital determinant in the health, success, and security of one’s life. With greater wealth, not only does one have daily access to basic human necessities but also better healthcare benefits and reassurance of a sufficient income leading to longevity and tranquility. Yet, despite the great significance wealth has on the quality of life, there are large inconsistencies in the global [wealth distribution](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/01/16/richest-1percent-amassed-almost-two-thirds-of-new-wealth-created-since-2020-oxfam.html). From all of the wealth created since 2020, the richest 1% in the world own 67% of this new wealth (Kiderlin). Concerned with the unequal distribution of wealth, we wanted to analyze trends in the individuals who have the highest net worth globally in order to understand if this top-tier socioeconomic status is limited to specific characteristics or if it is a status that can be achieved by people from all backgrounds.

Our project focuses on identifying precursors for achieving a high economic status and assess who is being excluded from the billionaire economic class by investigating the question: **What precursors do those with the highest net worth in the world have in common with one another?** Included in this report will be interactive data visualizations that help answer the following questions:

1. *How is age related to the networth of a billionaire, and how do these trends differ when gender (as a binary variable) is also analyzed?*
2. *How does a billionaire's tendency to give back to society change based on their privilege/inherited wealth?*
3. *How does one’s country of origin (international factor) or state (domestic factor) relate to the chances of achieving a net worth in the billions?*

Through our research, we hope to provide answers about the common social factors among current billionaires. Our findings can help designers and technologists who work in research to design and share more detailed information about the make-up of billionaires beyond the standard factors of industry and net worth. Policy-makers, both on an international and domestic level, face increasing amounts of pressure and responsibility to address wealth inequality through public policies. Our findings can make policy-makers aware of whether they’re enforcing the status quo of who a billionaire is and what social class they come from. In order to better craft effective policies that curb an over-accumulation of wealth by a small and concentrated part of society, policy-makers can consider through our data who is being left out of these opportunities to accumulate wealth. Lastly, our focus on the trends in philanthropy among billionaires can help policy-makers evaluate what are the best methods to make sure billionaires are sharing their wealth.

# The Dataset
In order to address these questions, we used Forbes’ data on the World’s Billionaires in 2022 as billionaires own the most amount of wealth in the world. The dataset includes variables relevant to our research questions such as age, gender, philanthropy score, self-made or not, and country or state of origin.
The data was collected by Forbes and published on Kaggle. The main editor of the data is Kerry A. Dolan and others include Bruce Upbin, Russell Flannery, Naazneen Karmali, Zina Moukheiber, Tatiana Serafin, and Susan Adams. The entire team is composed of more than 50 individuals that work together to collect and aggregate the data.

[Link to data as a csv file (Kaggle)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/prasertk/forbes-worlds-billionaires-list-2022?resource=download)

[Link to source of data (Forbes)](https://www.forbes.com/billionaires/)

# Ethical Questions

Gender is misrepresented as female and male in this dataset. Forbes misidentified gender as sex by using "female" instead of "women" and "male" instead of "men" to represent the data for gender. Throughout this report, we will denote the `F` and `M` symbol in Forbes' data under the `gender` column as "women" and "men" respectively. The data also treats gender as a binary variable limiting the gender analysis to women and men. 

Secondly, a person is listed as a billionaire only if they were the founder of their wealth. This means multi-generational families and those born into tremendous wealth are not included in the survey. This refers to privilege and how those who are born into wealthy circumstances may not be represented in this dataset.

# Limitations

After evaluating the dataset, one possible problem might arise due to the inclusion of both international and domestic data. This could cause difficulty in interpreting the results as a combined population because of the known differences between domestic versus international trends. It ultimately led us to our question “How does one’s country of origin (international factor) or state (domestic factor) relate to the chances of achieving a net worth in the billions?” through which we first examine trends in individual countries to identify and reduce the impact of cultural differences. Another possible limitation is the considerable number of “NA” values in the philanthropy score column. The lack of data limits our sample size for identifying trends among those who are charitable. Furthermore, it seems there are more “NA” values for billionaires who are not from the United States, suggesting the dataset is favoring United States billionaires over international ones. Limited data about those from countries other than the United States would cause our conclusions therefore to also favor US billionaires. Another possible limitation is the “self-made” category being represented as binary which may be an oversimplification. It is difficult to ascertain the level of power and influence the individual’s family may have had, leading to limited nuance and applicability of the results. Lastly, there are a few factors that are more informative in elucidating the realities of social mobility such as educational attainment, race, and the family’s relative economic class that Forbes chose not to investigate. If these factors were included in our dataset, the conclusions we would be able to draw about whether social mobility is attainable for the average person may be more specific and detailed.

---

### Citations
<a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/social-justice-money-flat-composition-with-unequal-opportunities-people-with-more-income-less-illustration_16396829.htm#query=wealth%20inequality&position=0&from_view=search&track=ais">Image by macrovector</a> on Freepik

<a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/inheritance-concept-illustration_33756691.htm#query=inherit&position=0&from_view=search&track=sph">Image by storyset</a> on Freepik

<a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/business-inequality-concept-illustration_23849115.htm#query=business%20inequality&position=1&from_view=author">Image by storyset</a> on Freepik

Kiderlin, Sophie. “The Richest 1% of People Amassed Almost Two-Thirds of New Wealth Created In the Last Two Years, Oxfam Says.” CNBC, NBCUniversal News Group, 16 Jan. 2023, https://www.cnbc.com/2023/01/16/richest-1percent-amassed-almost-two-thirds-of-new-wealth-created-since-2020-oxfam.html.

---

# Conclusion / Summary Takeaways
## Analysis of our Distribution of Age vs. Net Worth by Gender Scatter plot

To answer our first guiding question on the trends in age, gender, and net worth among billionaires, the scatter plot shows that billionaires aged 55 to 75, on average, seem to have higher net worths. There is, however, an outlier at age 50 with the highest net worth at upwards of 200 billion dollars. Excluding the outlier, the male with the highest net worth is around 57 years old while the billionaire that is a woman with the highest net worth is around age 67. It seems that billionaires that are women, as a whole, have lower net worths than billionaires that are men. The wealthier billionaires who identify as women are generally older than the wealthier billionaires who identify as men suggesting that billionaires who are women acquire wealth when they’re older. Overall, it appears that older men hold the majority of the world's wealth and have the highest net worth. When thinking of the larger implications, older generations hold massive influence as the world’s wealthiest even when their values or interests conflict with younger generations. Initially, our group had assumed there weren’t many young billionaires and this visualization overwhelmingly proves this theory that many of the world’s billionaires are older and are men.

## Analysis of our Philanthropy Score Versus Billionaires Who are Self Made

For our second question, we wanted to figure out if an individual’s background (their level of privilege throughout their upbringing), or their individual experiences with their grapple with money has an effect on their generosity and altruism. Our graph shows that a majority of billionaires are less charitable, in the sense that a majority of them have the lowest philanthropy score of 1. The higher the philanthropy score, the less number of billionaires there are with that score. With regards to the proportion between self-made and non-self-made billionaires,  billionaires who are self-made are the most charitable and give back to the community more than their non-self-made counterparts. We can conclude this because throughout all the philanthropy scores in the 5-point scale, self-made billionaires make up more than half of the bar of overall billionaires with that particular score. Overall, it is worth noting that self-made billionaires also outnumber non-self-made billionaires in our dataset. But thinking of the larger trends in philanthropy among billionaires, the overwhelming majority are less charitable and it’s less common for billionaires to willingly share large amounts of their wealth. This may be valuable to consider for governments determining public policies to enact on the wealthiest to ensure billionaires are sharing their wealth.

## Analysis of Billionaires in the United States and Billionaires in the World

For our third question, we wanted to see the geographic distribution of billionaires in the U.S. and in the world. When thinking about wealth distribution in a national and international context, our visualization gives insight into which regions have the most number of billionaires and which regions have the least number of billionaires. This map is helpful in highlighting the countries with the highest number of billionaires, such as the United States that has 748 billionaires and China that has 571 billionaires. In comparison, South America, Africa, and Southwestern Asia had lower concentrations of billionaires. Zooming in on the United States specifically, this density map highlights the areas with the highest concentration of billionaires, such as California with 186 billionaires and New York with 135 billionaires. It also shows the areas with the lowest concentration of billionaires, such as rural states in the Midwest and South. A considerable number of states in the middle of the United States also had 0 billionaires as well as states in Northeastern United States. Throughout our visualization, there are regions that stand out as high outliers and represent the current uneven and unequal wealth distribution geographically. This information can be useful for a variety of purposes, such as market research, national and international policy analysis, and social science research.

## Final Insights

This project analyzed the Forbes 2022 Billionaires List and highlighted major trends among the world’s billionaires based on age, gender, privilege, philanthropy, and geographic location among billionaires. Our first chart showed that older men hold the majority of the world’s wealth. Our second chart showed that the majority of billionaires tend to be less charitable, but self-made billionaires tend to be more charitable than non-self-made billionaires. And lastly, many of the world’s billionaires are from the United States and China and looking specifically at the United States, California, New York, and Florida have the highest number of billionaires. These reveal characteristics that are favored in order to achieve a high economic status. That said, wealth and economic stability is a privilege. Billionaires especially are a unique class of individuals who have experienced this privilege, leading the general public to hold them in high prestige, mystique, but also critique due to their role in perpetuating wealth inequality. There is a need for better policies that curb the over-accumulation of wealth by a small and concentrated part of society. We hope this data sheds light on who is being left out of these opportunities to accumulate wealth, so that we may take steps to remedy certain structural and cultural inequities in society. 
